Explaining gaps in your CV or exceptional circumstances to employers
This guide will help you consider how to talk to employers about any gaps in your CV or exceptional circumstances when applying for roles.

Jul 30 2025
Have you taken time out of education or the workplace? Or have your grades been affected by exceptional circumstances beyond your control? Students and graduates can often worry that this will automatically look bad to employers. This guide is here to allay those fears and help you put your experiences in the best possible light.

What counts as a gap in your CV?
Theoretically, any time in your life where you are not employed, in education, or taking part in activity worth including on a CV counts as a ‘gap’. Some jobs, particularly those involving criminal background checks, may ask you to account for every gap.

Most employers, however, are only interested in longer-term gaps, since these could potentially suggest a trend for your future employment with them.

James Darley, an experienced recruiter and CEO of Transform Society, told us:

 “You DON’T need to explain every…one- or two-month gap … we as employers are trying to see what you have done … over significant periods. So, for me I would say if I saw a four month+ gap I would start getting interested.”

Generally, it’s good to be prepared to explain gaps of three months or more, especially if they’re recent. Employers are usually less interested in older gaps, particularly for students and new graduates whose recent years have been spent in education. This can mean that gaps are less important for undergraduate and graduate roles.

Your degree can be a chance for a fresh start. For instance, PwC* has a policy of requesting references for experienced hires with gaps longer than three to six months. But for early career roles, they focus on eligibility criteria and potential. Their assessors in the later stages of recruitment no longer see the application form.

What if I do have a gap of three months or more?
1. Have you been doing something worth including on your CV?
Before you count something as a CV gap, think about any relevant activities. Give yourself full credit for them and link it to the skills in the job description. For example:

Volunteering or positions of responsibility in clubs/societies/charities?
Education or training?
Freelance work or self-employment?
Informal part-time work?
Independent learning e.g. coding, AI tools, digital skills?
Treat these experiences like any other job on your CV. Include a role title, dates, and bullet points to describe what you did. For example:

"Self-taught student of programming, September 2022 - February 2023

Fulfilled ambition to learn programming skills for my future career development.
Used a variety of free online course providers to reach an advanced level in Python, C# and JavaScript.
Joined online forums to learn from others and complete programming challenges."
You can also describe caring responsibilities or travel in this way, highlighting transferable skills. Caring for others often provides great examples of interpersonal, communication, organisation and time management skills. Periods of travel can be great for demonstrating organisation, problem solving, resilience and adaptability.

Consider using a skills-based CV if you have a larger or more recent gap. See the Example CVs to find out more about how to structure one of these.

2. Provide brief, positive explanation.
Shorter or older gaps (e.g. under six months) often don’t need explanation on your CV. Just be prepared to talk about them in an interview.

For more recent or longer gaps, or if you prefer, a short positive explanation can go on either your CV or cover letter. For example:

"Date - Date: Rehabilitation after brain injury/ Caring for a family member. I am now ready for new responsibilities."

If you have significant experience overall, you might choose to record years of experience instead of dates (i.e. 3 years, instead of 2020-2023). This could put more emphasis on the experience you have, rather than highlighting gaps. This research article suggests that it could be an effective approach for career changers or returners. It could benefit you to highlight years of experience overall in your profile. For example:

"Motivated fundraiser with over 5 years' experience of working within charities”

Prospects provide an example of how to talk about a gap year in a cover letter.

For job applications without strict formal rules, some people prefer to explain at the end of a CV or in a final paragraph of their cover letter:

For example:

 “I took some time out from the workplace from Date - Date due to illness. Now I have recovered/ learned strategies to manage my health condition, I am looking forward to focusing on my career.”

3. Link your experience to skills and strengths
This is optional, but can help reframe your experience positively. For example:

 “Learning to manage my health condition taught me resilience and self-awareness. I have applied these skills to improve my academic performance in recent exams.”

“Redundancy gave me the chance to reflect and reskill for a new career direction.”

4. Common reasons for gaps
Gaps happen for many reasons. See this TargetJobs article on how to explain employment gaps after graduation, which includes gaps due to unemployment, taking longer to complete your degree, time out due to illness or family responsibilities, pandemic-related disruption or other personal events.

5. Gaps due to a criminal record
There are specific guidelines around gaps in your CV caused by a criminal record. For further support:

Explaining gaps in your CV because of a criminal record - Unlock.
Applying for jobs and volunteering | Criminal Record Advice | Nacro
Students with a criminal record - further links and resources on job hunting
Concerns around other CV circumstances that have not left a gap
Took longer to complete your degree?
Make sure your degree dates are correct.
Often, just the award year is needed.
Mention other things you did during that time (e.g. part-time work, courses).
Think about what you learned about yourself.
Double-check you’re eligible for schemes based on academic year and contact employers if unsure.
Switched degrees or universities?
A simple positive explanation which focuses on what you did complete or skills you did learn during that time is better than a gap.
As above, think about what you have learned about yourself from the experience. It can take bravery to acknowledge that something isn’t quite right and good self-awareness to switch to something that works better for you. If you can relate this to something needed for the job, even better.
For example:

“University of Life, BEng Engineering Design, September 2023 – January 2024

Achieved pass marks in practical engineering projects.
Realised I missed the challenge of more theoretical Maths problems.
Made a successful application to study Engineering Maths at Bristol.”
Grades affected by circumstances beyond your control?
If you still have a chance to request that examiners take your exceptional circumstances into account, it is best to do this.
Sometimes this still does not enable you to show your full potential via your grades.
You could still be screened out of recruitment processes that have grade requirements. Contact the employer (or, for larger companies, their Human Resources department) if you feel that your circumstances require special consideration.
Ensure you point out evidence of relevant potential. Perhaps you have high marks in particular modules? Perhaps there is a clear difference related to your change in circumstances? This can be particularly important if:
You are a neurodivergent individual with a ‘spiky profile’.
You have newly diagnosed study support needs that were previously unsupported.
Try to ensure you excel in meeting other criteria asked of you on the job specification.
“Foot in the door” opportunities and networking may help you to get relevant experience to excel in the field longer term.
Further support
Come to one of our regular term-time CV intro talks or workshops.
You may find that your situation intersects with one of those in our Support for: students from under-represented groups.
Disabled or neurodivergent students may wish to discuss their situation in a Disclosure/ Adjustments/ Access/ Advocacy appointment with EmployAbility. See Support for: Disabled and neurodivergent students for further information.
Talk to the Careers Service if you want to discuss your approach further.
*PwC confirmed this in an email to the Careers Service in December 2023.