How to write your CV
How to write a CV that stands out from the crowd.

Jan 31 2025
On this page:
Plan your CV
Write your CV
Check your CV
Explain gaps in your CV
Using Artificial Intelligence
1. Plan your CV
Use your CV to show the employer how your skills, experience and knowledge meet the job/ person specification.

If you are trying to decide whether to include something on your CV, consider whether it is recent and relevant:

If it isn’t directly relevant, can you reframe it to highlight desirable transferable skills?
If it isn’t recent or relevant, you may choose to only mention it very briefly or delete it from your CV.
Choose your format
Depending on how much relevant experience you have, choose one of the following layouts:

a. Chronological
This is the most common type of CV. This format is useful if you have any relevant work experience.

Write about your experiences and education starting with the most recent. See example chronological CVs from pages 2 to 7 (PDF).

b. Skills-based
Arrange your experiences by skills-based subheadings (like team work) to show how you meet the role requirements.

This format is useful if you:

have limited work experience:
You can showcase transferable skills gained from other work or volunteering, education, interests, or your home life.

want to change career:
If you have extensive or varied work history, it will enable you to describe relevant skills drawn from a range of experiences.

See example skills-based CVs from pages 9 to 10 (PDF).

Length
Follow the employer's guidelines on how long your CV should be, if stated. If they do not specify, you can usually assume one or two-page CV is acceptable. However, a one-page CV is generally preferred if you are applying for law, consultancy or financial roles.

2. Write your CV
Use clear headings to guide employers through your CV easily as they will skim read it. If the employer sees something they like, they will then read your CV thoroughly. So, use words from the job description to show them how you meet the person specification.

Essential CV sections
Personal details
Do write your:

name
email address
telephone number
any relevant URLs (such as LinkedIn or online professional portfolio).
For most jobs, you should not include :

age
date of birth
gender
a photo in the UK (except for specific careers, such as acting)
nationality.
This is because employers should not make hiring decisions on these factors. See the Equality Act (2010) guide for more information.

Did you know that some employers use blind recruitment to avoid bias when recruiting?

Education
Start with your most recent education, describe relevant:

modules
projects
transferable skills you developed. For example:
data analysis
delivering presentations
achieving multiple deadlines
written communication.
Use the Unit and programme catalogue to find specific information about the skills and experience you may have gained from different modules.

You can summarise pre-university education, so it provides the essential information without taking up too much space.

Experience
To prioritise which experience the employer sees first, you could split this section into “relevant experience” and "other experience”. Decide whether you want to include paid and voluntary experiences in the same section, or use separate subheadings.

If you are missing specific knowledge, experience or skills, you can include similar experiences or transferable skills instead.

How to structure
Start with your most recent experience and work backwards. If you split your experience into more than one section, follow the same pattern in each section.

Describe your experiences in a detailed yet concise way by using bullet points with the CAR structure:

Context: briefly explain the situation or task.
Action: describe your specific actions using active language.
Result: highlight the outcomes and achievements, quantifying where possible.
Start your bullet points with varied action words. These will help you get straight to the point, and creates a positive impression of your proactivity with the employer as they skim your CV.

Optional CV sections
Personal profile
Write around 3 sentences at the start of your CV that state your top selling points and career ambition. Make sure it is relevant to the opportunity you are applying for.

Skills
In a chronological CV, use this to show any technical skills and capabilities that match the role you're applying for. However, you should still try to provide evidence for these skills through your experience.

Interests and hobbies
Write about your interests or hobbies if you think they will strengthen your CV. This could be desirable transferable skills or knowledge in an area that is relevant to the job.

Achievements
Consider any achievements and what you want them to say about you (for example, scholarships, Bristol PLUS Award, Duke of Edinburgh, academic awards).  Describe what skills and knowledge you developed from it.

3. Check your CV 
Ensure your CV looks professional by checking:

Same font and format
Use clear and professional fonts such as Arial or Times New Roman. Maintain consistency in font size (10 to 12) and formatting throughout your CV and your cover letter. Do not leave half a blank page at the end.

Be concise
Keep the content concise and easy to read, utilising bullet points and clear spacing.

Once you feel your CV is ready, we recommend using our online CV feedback tool (CareerSet). You will receive AI-generated feedback and recommendations on how to improve your CV. This is particularly important if you are applying for employers using Applicant Tracking Systems (ATS) to review CVs.

4. Address gap(s) or exceptional circumstances
Have you taken time out of education or the workplace? Or have your grades or marks been affected by problems beyond your control. You should explain the gaps in your CV to employers by putting the experiences in the best possible way.

5. Use Artificial intelligence (AI)
Whether you can use AI for your application, depends on the employer. Information can often be found on employer’s career web pages. If you are not sure, you can ask them.

Generally, AI can be used to generate ideas, such as list of action words you can use in an application. However, do not ask the AI to write the entire application for you.

When using AI, do not forget to:

personalise the information as employers expect to see a tailored response.
fact-check as AI does not always get it right.
Everything in your application must be true.