CVs for Postgraduate applications
This guide is designed to help anyone preparing a CV as part of an application for postgraduate study, whether that be for a Master’s, PhD, or any other form of academic course beyond undergraduate level.

Jul 17 2024
A lot of the advice provided in the Careers Service's CV resources is relevant for this kind of CV. Below are a few further points you may wish to consider.

Tailor and target Your CV for your intended audience
Like any other CV, this CV’s aim is to provide evidence that you have the experience and skills that the intended audience is looking for.

Look closely at the information available to you about the course you’re applying to on the course page on the website of the university or universities you’re applying to, to help you identify the skills and competencies which your application will be assessed against. Using this information, think carefully about what an admissions tutor for your chosen course would need to know about you in order to feel confident that you would thrive on the course. You will then be in a position to tailor your CV to meet these criteria.

Length: It’s usually a good idea to stick to two full pages. You may have heard that academic CVs can be longer than other types of CV, which is true – academics will usually either include exhaustive lists of publications, teaching experience, and any conferences, invited talks, or workshops they’ve attended, or follow a ‘narrative’ format (explained well on this Narrative CVs  webpage from Imperial College London). But for a postgraduate application, it’s unlikely that you’ll have many (or any!) of these experiences yet, so two pages should be enough.
Structure and format: As with any CV, the structure and sub-sections of the CV can be adapted to meet the criteria and expectations of the person who’ll be reading it. Most CVs for postgraduate applications will include your personal details, an education section outlining your academic achievements in some detail, a relevant experience section highlighting any relevant extra-curricular experience you’ve gained, and possibly an awards/achievements/positions of responsibility section where you can include any further evidence which might help show how you meet the course’s criteria. Be sure to follow any specific instructions on CV format or structure provided in the application information.
Focus on your academic achievements
Provide the title of your current or most recent degree, and your final or predicted award and degree classification. Be sure to highlight any evidence of outstanding academic achievement, for example scholarships, awards, or particularly high grades.
Include details of the most relevant modules you studied, and consider adding your module grades if they were especially impressive.
If you completed a dissertation or final research project, mention the subject matter you covered, and any relevant research skills or methods you learned during this or any other part of your degree.
Prioritise relevant experience
Any academic conferences, workshops, or summer schools you’ve attended in your subject area.
Any academic publications, reviews, or blog posts you’ve written in your subject area (including works in progress).
Any relevant extra-curricular professional or voluntary roles.
Any relevant technical skills e.g. languages, specialist software experience, programming languages.
Membership of any relevant academic professional organization or association.
Any teaching experience you’ve gained in your subject area.
Don’t worry if you don’t have all of these experiences yet – it's the exception, and not the norm to speak at conferences, publish an academic article, or gain teaching experience before applying for postgraduate courses! The important thing is to highlight any information which demonstrates your commitment to your chosen subject.

Ask someone to proof-read before submitting
Last but certainly not least! Even the most detail-oriented of us can miss tiny spelling, grammar, or formatting errors, especially when we are reviewing our own work. Asking someone else to proof-read your CV is therefore a great idea before you submit your application.

The ideal proof-reader doesn’t have to be an expert in the subject matter of the degree you’re applying for, just someone you trust who has a good understanding of English used in a professional context. This could be a family member, friend, or colleague. Make sure that your proof-reader has plenty of time to read and give feedback on your document before the submission deadline.

Example CVs
View these two example CVs for the most common types of postgraduate applications, the MA and the PhD. They have been tailored for specific subjects and are targeted at specific degree courses, but they are a useful point of reference for any CV written as part of a postgraduate application for any subject or course.

Please remember that the examples given are just one way of presenting your relevant skills and experience, and that you might find a different format or approach more suitable for your circumstances